mention more details about reviver function (#29037)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/json/parse/index.md

The `reviver` is called with the object containing the property being processed as `this` (unless you define the `reviver` as an arrow function, in which case there's no separate `this` binding) and two arguments: `key` and `value`, representing the property name as a string (even for arrays) and the property value. If the `reviver` function returns {{jsxref("undefined")}} (or returns no value — for example, if execution falls off the end of the function), the property is deleted from the object. Otherwise, the property is redefined to be the return value. If the `reviver` only transforms some values and not others, be certain to return all untransformed values as-is — otherwise, they will be deleted from the resulting object.

Similar to the `replacer` parameter of {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}}, for arrays and objects, `reviver` will be last called on the root value with an empty string as the `key` and the root object as the `value`. For other valid JSON values, `reviver` works similarly and is called once with an empty string as the `key` and the value itself as the `value`.

> Also, you should take care while doing your implementation of the `reviver` function and handle the last iteration that happened to the root value because if you return another value, it will override the returned root value.
> 
> ```js
> const transformedObj1 = JSON.parse('[1,5,{"s":1}]', (key, value) => {
>   return typeof value === "object" ? undefined : value;
> });
> 
> console.log(transformedObj1); // undefined
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
If you return another value from `reviver`, that value will completely replace the originally parsed value. This even applies to the root value. For example:

```js
const transformedObj1 = JSON.parse('[1,5,{"s":1}]', (key, value) => {
  return typeof value === "object" ? undefined : value;
});

console.log(transformedObj1); // undefined
```

There is no way to work around this generically. You cannot specially handle the case where `key` is an empty string, because JSON objects can also contain keys that are empty strings. You need to know very precisely what kind of transformation is needed for each key when implementing the reviver.
````

If a `reviver` is specified, the value computed by parsing is _transformed_ before being returned. Specifically, the computed value and all its properties (in a [depth-first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Depth-first_search) fashion, beginning with the most nested properties and proceeding to the original value itself) are individually run through the `reviver`.

> The `reviver` is called with the object containing the property being processed as `this (unless you define the `reviver` as an arrow function, it will get its value from the nearest context) and two arguments: `key` and `value`, representing the property name as a string (even for arrays) and the property value. If the `reviver` function returns {{jsxref("undefined")}} (or returns no value — for example, if execution falls off the end of the function), the property is deleted from the object. Otherwise, the property is redefined to be the return value. If the `reviver` only transforms some values and not others, be certain to return all untransformed values as-is — otherwise, they will be deleted from the resulting object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `reviver` is called with the object containing the property being processed as `this` (unless you define the `reviver` as an arrow function, in which case there's no separate `this` binding) and two arguments: `key` and `value`, representing the property name as a string (even for arrays) and the property value. If the `reviver` function returns {{jsxref("undefined")}} (or returns no value — for example, if execution falls off the end of the function), the property is deleted from the object. Otherwise, the property is redefined to be the return value. If the `reviver` only transforms some values and not others, be certain to return all untransformed values as-is — otherwise, they will be deleted from the resulting object.
```

> Similar to the `replacer` parameter of {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}}, for arrays and objects, `reviver` will be last called on the root value with an empty string as the `key` and the root object as the `value`. For other valid JSON values, `reviver` will be called once with an empty string as the `key` and the value as the `value`.

Reviewer: I think this separates things into two cases for no reason. For both objects, arrays, and primitives, `reviver` will be last called with `key = ""`, `value = root object`. The only difference is that `reviver` is never called multiple times for primitives.

Author: I beg to differ in calling "root" and "object" on other values like: numbers, strings, .... etc

Reviewer: I see. I do think that sounds logical. Let's make it slightly clearer.

```suggestion
Similar to the `replacer` parameter of {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}}, for arrays and objects, `reviver` will be last called on the root value with an empty string as the `key` and the root object as the `value`. For other valid JSON values, `reviver` works similarly and is called once with an empty string as the `key` and the value itself as the `value`.
```

> Also, you should take care while doing your implementation of the `reviver` function and handle the last iteration that happened to the root value because if you return another value, it will override the returned root value. However, it's a good place to transform the whole object after running the `reviver` function on its elements.

Reviewer: Why root value specifically? If you return another value for any node, that node would be entirely replaced.

I'm also not sure what you mean by "transform the whole object"—it's generally not a good idea to mutate the object being serialized.

Author: yeah, it's already intuitive that properties are being replaced with your return .... but the last iteration will recieve the new transformed object containing new values... which is supposed to be returned and if you didn't care about this one in your conditions it will override all the previous iterations and return to you another unexpected value.

like the example above: it was supposed to just remove objects from the array and didn't care that the last iteration will pass this condition and return undefined as well.

also transforming the whole object is already up to the developer's case, there's no good or bad on transforming the object....if you just need to serialize it as it is .... you can ignore the whole retreive function .... otherwise, you can customize your returned object as you like it to be

Author: we have already provided example of it in this page 
![image](https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/65634467/045de895-e1d3-4895-a209-9ece2bd0af74)

Author: But you know what .... this thing is not solid enough ..... there's no solid way to catch the last iteration

Author: I didn't like the condition :  key ===  "" 

cuz actually JSON permits properties with empty strings as keys

Author: > we have already provided example of it in this page ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/65634467/266865033-045de895-e1d3-4895-a209-9ece2bd0af74.png)

I mean example of transforming the whole object

Reviewer: What I'm saying is: it doesn't make sense for a reviver to distinguish whether something is the root object or not. It should make no difference when parsing `[some value]` and `{"key":[some value]}`. Therefore even if we are to include this note, it should say "if you return a completely different thing, the original one is replaced, including the root value, so make sure you know what you are doing"

Author: Yeah, got your point .... I think we are on the same page ....I just wanted to specialize this one because it's kinda affecting the others and also it's an opportunity to confirm that the last iteration work the same way ( as it's kinda different from others ) and mention what will be modified if you return something in its iteration .... but I think your suggestion will do the job.

// ""
```

> ### Preserving Object's type while serializing it

Reviewer: This seems too vague. What about:

```suggestion
### Symmetry between reviver and the replacer of JSON.stringify()
```

Reviewer: Sorry, I didn't realize you got rid of `reviver` here. We need to bring it back.

Author: Cuz I removed it from the example

the reason behind its existence before was to catch the last iteration and create a new map of the serialized object and it was using the empty string condition to catch it.... and as I've said this condition is not solid to catch the last iteration.

so instead of doing that we can remove it and create a new map of the returned object like this:

```js
const obj = JSON.parse(jsonText);
const map2 = new Map(obj);
```

instead of 

```js
const map2 = JSON.parse(jsonText, (key, value) =>
  key === "" ? new Map(value) : value,
```

console.log(jsonText);
// [[1,"one"],[2,"two"],[3,"three"]]

const obj = JSON.parse(jsonText);

> const map2 = new Map(obj);

Reviewer: You are not demonstrating the reviver anymore

Author: In general, I don't like depending on this condition to get the last iteration because JSON allows empty string keys so it can happen and condition will pass in this case for this property, However it works for this case and also removing the reviver in this place breaks the title so we need to think of another example or change the title yeah ... what do you think?

Author: example of empty string keys case
```js
const map3 = JSON.parse('[[1,"one"],{"":4 , "44":8}]', function(key, value){
    
     return key === "" ? new Map(value) : value;
});` // throws error 4 not iterable

Author: I think changing the title to be like :
Using JSON.parse() when paired with the replacer of JSON.stringify()

or

Preserving object's type using JSON.parse() and JSON.stringify()

I prefer the last one

Reviewer: I agree that `key === ""` is a very bad pattern. However, since there's no way to tell if an array is legitimately an array or another map, I suggest treating all arrays as maps in this reviver.

```js
const map2 = JSON.parse(jsonText, (key, value) =>
  Array.isArray(value) ? new Map(value) : value,
);
```

Author: oh, didn't notice this one

Author: yeah if you need to apply a condition on this one ( as we know 100% how the json object will look like ) ....then yeah, we can do it..... but the main idea for me is to avoid any usage of the last iteration .... and instead use the returned object and do whatever we want on it...... but if you prefer leaving the reviver anyway then both are the same  
```js
key === ""
```
 and 
```js 
Array.isArray(value) ? new Map(value) : value
```
as both depend on that we 100% know how the JSON string looks like ....so if we can know that it contains only arrays then we can know that it doesn't contain a property with empty string key

Author: the Array.isArray() is preferred though
